Q1.What is Database?
Database is a organized collection of interrelated data or structured collection of data.
So as store and mainatin the data in a secure and easy retrieval manner.
Processiong the data according to bussiness logic rule.
Presenting the data in a user-understandable format.

Q2. What is the difference between SQL and MySQL?
SQL is a standard language which stands for Structured Query Language based on the English language	
MySQL is a database management system.

SQL is the core of the relational database which is used for accessing and managing database	
MySQL is an RDMS (Relational Database Management System) such as SQL Server, Informix etc.


Q3. What are the different subsets of SQL?
Data Definition Language (DDL) – create, alter(add, modify, drop, change), drop, truncate, rename
Data Manipulation Language(DML) – insert, update, delete
Data Retrieval Language(DRL) - select.
Transaction Control Language (TCL) - commit, rollback, savepoint
Data Control Language(DCL) – Grant, Revoke 

Q4. What is DBMS?
DBMS is a software which is used to manage the database. It provides an interface to perform
various operations like database creation, table creation, storing, updating data and a lot more.
It contains ACID properties which maintain data in a healthu state in case of failure.

Q5.Difference between RDBMS & DBMS?
 
DBMS                                             RDBMS
1.Stores data as a file.                         1. Stores data in a table form.
2.DBMS cannot be Normalized.                     2.RDBMS can be Normalized .
3.It uses file systems to store                  3.Data are stored in table form  
  data, so there is no relation                    So a relation will also be stored
  between data.                                    in table form.
4.Ex: file systems, XML                          4.Ex: MySQL, Postgress, Oracle DB etc.
5. It is slower for large amounts of data        5.It is speedy due to the relational approach

Q6. Why RDBMS is used?
RDBMS is an extension of DBMS s/w
Every RDBMS is a DBMS but reverse is not true.
All the RDBMS s/w have a "DB-engine" which is the heart of the RDBMS s/w, and it is repsonsible to execute sql query
In order to work with RDBMS we need to use SQL (structured query language), it is an interface by using which we can work with any kind of RDBMS s/w.
Sql is a case insensetive language.

It is used to overcome the problem of storing the data in DBMS such as: 
Flat files problems---
1.Data Maintainence (Possibility of lakhs and crores of records)
2.Data Redundancy (Duplicate records)
3.Data Integrity (Change in one place doesnt affect at other place)
4.Security (Anyone can open)
5.Data Retrieval (From crores of data)


Q7. Explain the types of SQL joins.
SQL Join statements is used to combine rows of data from two or more tables based on a common column between them.

-- Inner Join - This statements returns all the rows from multiples tables as long as conditions are met.
-- Left Join  - This statements returns all the rows from left table & matching rows from right table.
-- Right Join  - This statements returns all the rows from right table & matching rows from left table.
-- Full Join  - This statements returns all the rows when thre is a match in either left or right table.

Q8.What is constraints and types?
It prevents invalid data into our table
-- Not Null - 
-- Unique - Unique constraints ensure that all the values in a column are different.
-- Primary Key - A primary key is used to uniquely identify all table records. 
                 It cannot have NULL values and must contain unique values.                    
                 Only one primary key can exist in one table, and it may have single or multiple fields, making it a composite key.
-- Foreign key - A foreign key is a column that refer the primary key of some other table. 
                 Basically, a foreign key is used to link together two tables.


Q9. What is the difference between primary key and unique key?
Both primary and unique keys carry unique values but a primary key cannot have a null value, while a unique key can.
In a table, there cannot be more than one primary key, but there can be multiple unique keys.


Q10. What are some common clauses used with SELECT query in SQL?
The following are some frequent SQL clauses used in conjunction with a SELECT query:

WHERE clause: In SQL, the WHERE clause is used to filter records that are required depending on certain criteria.
ORDER BY clause: The ORDER BY clause in SQL is used to sort data in ascending (ASC) or descending (DESC) order depending on specified field(s) (DESC).
GROUP BY clause: GROUP BY clause in SQL is used to group entries with identical data and may be used with aggregation methods to obtain summarised database results.
HAVING clause in SQL is used to filter records in combination with the GROUP BY clause. It is different from WHERE, since the WHERE clause cannot filter aggregated records.



Q11. List the different types of relationships in SQL.
There are different types of relations in the database:
One-to-One – This is a connection between two tables in which each record in one table corresponds to the maximum of one record in the other.
One-to-Many and Many-to-One – This is the most frequent connection, in which a record in one table is linked to several records in another.
Many-to-Many – This is used when defining a relationship that requires several instances on each sides.



Q12. What is the difference between DELETE and TRUNCATE statements?
DELETE vs TRUNCATE

DELETE	TRUNCATE
Delete command is used to delete a row in a table.	Truncate is used to delete all the rows from a table.
You can rollback data after using delete statement.	You cannot rollback data.
It is a DML command.	It is a DDL command.
It is slower than truncate statement.	It is faster.


Q13. How many Aggregate functions are available in SQL?

SQL provides seven (7) aggregate functions, which are given below:
AVG(): returns the average value from specified columns.
COUNT(): returns the number of table rows, including rows with null values.
MAX(): returns the largest value among the group.
MIN(): returns the smallest value among the group.
SUM(): returns the total summed values(non-null) of the specified column.
FIRST(): returns the first value of an expression.
LAST(): returns the last value of an expression.


Q14. What is the default ordering of data using the ORDER BY clause? How could it be changed?
The ORDER BY clause in MySQL can be used without the ASC or DESC modifiers. The sort order is
preset to ASC or ascending order when this attribute is absent from the ORDER BY clause.


Q15. How do we use the DISTINCT statement? What is its use?
The SQL DISTINCT keyword is combined with the SELECT query to remove all duplicate records and 
return only unique records. There may be times when a table has several duplicate records.
The DISTINCT clause in SQL is used to eliminate duplicates from a SELECT statement’s result set.


Q16. What are the different operators available in SQL?
There are three operators available in SQL, namely:
Arithmetic Operators
Logical Operators
Comparison Operators

Q17. What is subquery in SQL?
A subquery is a query inside another query where a query. In a subquery, the outer query is called 
as the main query whereas the inner query is called subquery. Subqueries are always executed first 
and the result of the subquery is passed on to the main query. 


Q18. What is the main difference between ‘BETWEEN’ and ‘IN’ condition operators?
BETWEEN operator is used to display rows based on a range of values in a row whereas the IN condition
operator is used to check for values contained in a specific set of values.

 Example of BETWEEN:
SELECT * FROM Students where ROLL_NO BETWEEN 10 AND 50;
Example of IN:
SELECT * FROM students where ROLL_NO IN (8,15,25);


Q19. What is the difference between ‘HAVING’ CLAUSE and a ‘WHERE’ CLAUSE?
Having Clause is only used with the GROUP BY function in a query whereas WHERE Clause is applied
to each row before they are a part of the GROUP BY function in a query.




Q20. What is First Normal Form?
A table is in first normal form (1NF) if it meets the following criteria:
1. The data are stored in a two-dimensional table.
2. There are no repeating groups.

By definition, an entity that does not have any repeating columns or data groups can be
termed as the First Normal Form. In the First Normal Form, every column is unique.

As per the rule of first normal form, an attribute (column) of a table cannot hold multiple
values. It should hold only atomic values(cannot hold Comma seperated values).
