Q1.What is Database?
Database is a organized collection of interrelated data or structured collection of data.
So as store and mainatin the data in a secure and easy retrieval manner.
Processiong the data according to bussiness logic rule.
Presenting the data in a user-understandable format.

Q2. What is the difference between SQL and MySQL?
SQL is a standard language which stands for Structured Query Language based on the English language	
MySQL is a database management system.

SQL is the core of the relational database which is used for accessing and managing database	
MySQL is an RDMS (Relational Database Management System) such as SQL Server, Informix etc.


Q3. What are the different subsets of SQL?
Data Definition Language (DDL) – create, alter(add, modify, drop, change), drop, truncate, rename
Data Manipulation Language(DML) – insert, update, delete
Data Retrieval Language(DRL) - select.
Transaction Control Language (TCL) - commit, rollback, savepoint
Data Control Language(DCL) – Grant, Revoke 

Q4. What is DBMS?
DBMS is a software which is used to manage the database. It provides an interface to perform
various operations like database creation, table creation, storing, updating data and a lot more.
It contains ACID properties which maintain data in a healthu state in case of failure.

Q5.Difference between RDBMS & DBMS?
 
DBMS                                             RDBMS
1.Stores data as a file.                         1. Stores data in a table form.
2.DBMS cannot be Normalized.                     2.RDBMS can be Normalized .
3.It uses file systems to store                  3.Data are stored in table form  
  data, so there is no relation                    So a relation will also be stored
  between data.                                    in table form.
4.Ex: file systems, XML                          4.Ex: MySQL, Postgress, Oracle DB etc.
5. It is slower for large amounts of data        5.It is speedy due to the relational approach

Q6. Why RDBMS is used?
It is used to overcome the problem of storing the data in DBMS such as: 
Flat files problems---
1.Data Maintainence (Possibility of lakhs and crores of records)
2.Data Redundancy (Duplicate records)
3.Data Integrity (Change in one place doesnt affect at other place)
4.Security (Anyone can open)
5.Data Retrieval (From crores of data)


Q7. Explain the types of SQL joins.
SQL Join statements is used to combine rows of data from two or more tables based on a common column between them.

-- Inner Join - This statements returns all the rows from multiples tables as long as conditions are met.
-- Left Join  - This statements returns all the rows from left table & matching rows from right table.
-- Right Join  - This statements returns all the rows from right table & matching rows from left table.
-- Full Join  - This statements returns all the rows when thre is a match in either left or right table.

Q8.What is constraints and types?
It prevents invalid data into our table
-Not Null.
-Unique.
-Primary Key.
-Foreign key.
